README.md, before:

# apneaDetector

Software for the detection of apneas from rodent pleth data. This code allows the installation of a Matlab app that can take rodent pleth data from an EDF file and outputs data for apnea detection. This app was built under Matlab 2019a and may require this version of the software in order to run properly. Please contact Jesse Pfammatter (pfammatter@wisc.edu or jesse.pfammatter@gmail.com) for questions, comments, bug notifications, feature enhancement suggestions, etc. 

This software requires Matlab's curvefitting toolbox to be installed.

Please download sample files from https://www.dropbox.com/sh/5dpmzuvlebjbheq/AABBQOaLNCXxSjBD-T89iSk4a?dl=0 to test software.

# Update 4 07/16/19, version 0.4

Changelog:

1. Added log for version and date to export object.
2. Removed visualization of fminsearch processing plots during breath and apnea detection, this improved code run time by ~80 seconds. Full run time for detecting breaths and apneas is now around ~80 seconds on an iMac (Retina 5K, 27-inch, Late 2014, 4 GHz Intel Core i7).
3. disabled mouse interactions and the toolbar visibility for all plots until bugs are repaired (Matlab ticket in progress).
4. Hid visibility of save and load functionality from the file menu until bugs are worked out.. Currently only the data export functionality is available.
5. Changed the value of the manual apnea category assign button to 'Unset' rather than to mimic the automated score. This aids the user in knowing on which events they have made a manual change.
6. Added a Legend to and improved visualization of the Filtered Signal and Apnea Detection Plot Window.
7. Reduced number of data points plotted in serval plot windows in order to reduce the number of 'glitches' as a woraround for Matlab's plotting methods issues.

New Known Issues:
As a result of this update the display indicating, 'Please Wait..' does not show at all during processing.

# Update 3 07/15/19, version 0.3

Added additional files to app package so that it runs on naive machines. Other additions include:

1. Toggle button to add raw data visibility to event window.. this isn't finished.
2. Some plotting visual changes.
3. Added a 'session notes' section where users can enter information relevant to their session of scoring.

A few of the features to be added in next release:

1. legends for all plots.
2. Improved speed during apnea detection.
3. Improve event inspector display window to include ability to change the xlimits and view a wider timescale and additional plot toggle functionality.

# Update 2 07/15/19, version 0.2

Updated app to apneaDetector v0.2

1. The 'Save' functionality doesn't seem to be functioning properly in the deployed app so for the time being I created an 'Export Data' menu item which allows users to save data from the app to be manipulated outside of the app.
2. I also fixed the known issue listed as #6 in Update 1 07/15/19.

# Update 1 07/15/19, version 0.1

First beta relase of this software on July 15th 2019. apneaDetector v0.1

Currently Known Issues:

1. 'Close' menus item not functional.
2. Ability to load in a human scored sleep file is not currently available.
3. Suporting plots on the right of the detection window are not functional.
4. 'Save' functionality is available which allows saving of the current state of the app, however the warning, 'Unable to save App Designer app object. Save not supported for matlab.apps.AppBase objects' shows up. Essentially the relevant data is saved and can be accessed directly via Matlab but cannot be 'Loaded' back into the application. This is due to a Matlab glitch and is being worked on through a support ticket at Matlab.
5. Sporatic display problems when slecting different channels from the imported EDF file or using the zoom menu functionality. This is due to a Matlab glitch and is being worked on through a support ticket at Matlab.
6. Errors saying, 'Error using newplot (line 64), Error while evaluating Figure CreateFcn. Previously accesible file ... is not inaccesible' appear during apnea detection. The app appears to run properly desipte these errors.

Commit message:

version 0.5
some major changes to sigh marking and apnea classification

README.md, after:

# apneaDetector

Software for the detection of apneas from rodent pleth data. This code allows the installation of a Matlab app that can take rodent pleth data from an EDF file and outputs data for apnea detection. This app was built under Matlab 2019a and may require this version of the software in order to run properly. Please contact Jesse Pfammatter (pfammatter@wisc.edu or jesse.pfammatter@gmail.com) for questions, comments, bug notifications, feature enhancement suggestions, etc. 

This software requires Matlab's curvefitting toolbox to be installed.

Please download sample files from https://www.dropbox.com/sh/5dpmzuvlebjbheq/AABBQOaLNCXxSjBD-T89iSk4a?dl=0 to test software.

# Update 4 07/19/19, version 0.5

Changelog:

1. Improved code annotation and cleaned up some unecessary text in apneaDetector.mlapp
2. Improved support plots on the right side of app.
3. Fixed issue where artifact after sigh was causing breaths to be detected after sigh which caused shortened apneas and innaccurate classification.
4. Identified all sighs, including ones that don't have an apnea directly following.
5. Fixed issue where apnea durations were being plotted incorrectly in the event inspector window. Events are still plotted a bit on the short end for some reason but the relative durations are correct after a fix to some indexing.
6. Added a button to visualize raw signal in event inspector window.

# Update 4 07/16/19, version 0.4

Changelog:

1. Added log for version and date to export object.
2. Removed visualization of fminsearch processing plots during breath and apnea detection, this improved code run time by ~80 seconds. Full run time for detecting breaths and apneas is now around ~80 seconds on an iMac (Retina 5K, 27-inch, Late 2014, 4 GHz Intel Core i7).
3. disabled mouse interactions and the toolbar visibility for all plots until bugs are repaired (Matlab ticket in progress).
4. Hid visibility of save and load functionality from the file menu until bugs are worked out.. Currently only the data export functionality is available.
5. Changed the value of the manual apnea category assign button to 'Unset' rather than to mimic the automated score. This aids the user in knowing on which events they have made a manual change.
6. Added a Legend to and improved visualization of the Filtered Signal and Apnea Detection Plot Window.
7. Reduced number of data points plotted in serval plot windows in order to reduce the number of 'glitches' as a woraround for Matlab's plotting methods issues.

New Known Issues:
As a result of this update the display indicating, 'Please Wait..' does not show at all during processing.

# Update 3 07/15/19, version 0.3

Added additional files to app package so that it runs on naive machines. Other additions include:

1. Toggle button to add raw data visibility to event window.. this isn't finished.
2. Some plotting visual changes.
3. Added a 'session notes' section where users can enter information relevant to their session of scoring.

A few of the features to be added in next release:

1. legends for all plots.
2. Improved speed during apnea detection.
3. Improve event inspector display window to include ability to change the xlimits and view a wider timescale and additional plot toggle functionality.

# Update 2 07/15/19, version 0.2

Updated app to apneaDetector v0.2

1. The 'Save' functionality doesn't seem to be functioning properly in the deployed app so for the time being I created an 'Export Data' menu item which allows users to save data from the app to be manipulated outside of the app.
2. I also fixed the known issue listed as #6 in Update 1 07/15/19.

# Update 1 07/15/19, version 0.1

First beta relase of this software on July 15th 2019. apneaDetector v0.1

Currently Known Issues:

1. 'Close' menus item not functional.
2. Ability to load in a human scored sleep file is not currently available.
3. Suporting plots on the right of the detection window are not functional.
4. 'Save' functionality is available which allows saving of the current state of the app, however the warning, 'Unable to save App Designer app object. Save not supported for matlab.apps.AppBase objects' shows up. Essentially the relevant data is saved and can be accessed directly via Matlab but cannot be 'Loaded' back into the application. This is due to a Matlab glitch and is being worked on through a support ticket at Matlab.
5. Sporatic display problems when slecting different channels from the imported EDF file or using the zoom menu functionality. This is due to a Matlab glitch and is being worked on through a support ticket at Matlab.
6. Errors saying, 'Error using newplot (line 64), Error while evaluating Figure CreateFcn. Previously accesible file ... is not inaccesible' appear during apnea detection. The app appears to run properly desipte these errors.
